# Source Home

`Source Home` provides all necessary test data and test sources to be executed within the control environment. 

??? tip
    To build the expected default structure of `Source Home`, `cetk-cli`'s [`init` command](../cli/init.md) may be used.

## Expected Folder/File Structure

The default structure of `Source Home` looks like this:

````shell
config/
docker/
libraries/
resources/
test_suites/
.cloud_upload_allowlist
cetk.toml
````

### Config Subfolder
This subfolder is optional and may hold project-specific configuration files for [supported executables](../control_env/index.md#supported-executables).

!!! note
    If no project-specific configuration files are used,
    `cetk-cli` already loads default configs based on many years of best practice usage for the executables `robocop`
    and `robotidy`. 

### Docker Subfolder
This subfolder is optional and may hold project-specific Docker compose files to be used by the on premise Control
Environments. 

### Libraries Subfolder
This subfolder is optional and may hold additional (Python) libraries that are needed and loaded during test execution.

!!! note
    The executables `robot`, `libdoc` and `rebot` add the path to this subfolder automatically to `PYTHONPATH` during execution. 

### Resources Subfolder
This subfolder is optional and may contain resources such as test data or keyword libraries to be used by the test suites.

!!! note
    During test execution, the global Robot Framework variable `${RESOURCES}` is available pointing to the path of this subfolder.

### Test Suites Subfolder
Within this subfolder, the test suites shall be placed. The test designer is free to choose any folder hierarchy within
this subfolder that deems necessary.

### Allowlist File for Cloud Upload
File name: `.cloud_upload_allowlist`

This file is only considered for the [cloud control environment](../control_env/cloud.md) and controls which folder and files from `Source Home` are
actually taken into account to be uploaded.

Its format is similar to the one from git's wildmatch.

It defaults basically to allow only files from the [expected folders](#expected-folderfile-structure) and additionally
exclude non-testing relevant files by their extensions:

??? example
    ````gitignore
    test_suites/**
    resources/**
    libraries/**
    config/**

    !__pycache__/
    !*.py[cod]
    !*.pyo
    !*.pyd
    !.env/
    !.venv/
    !.conda/
    !.conda_env/
    !.git/
    !*.git
    !*.gitignore
    !*.gitmodules
    ````

!!! note
    If not defined, `cetk-cli` uses a default one as it is generated by `cetk-cli`'s [`init` command](../cli/init.md).

### Configuration File for `cetk-cli`
File name: `cetk.toml`

This configuration file has the lowest priority of all available configuration sources. It's a good way to define `cetk-cli`'s
and its utilized [control environment](../control_env/index.md)'s default behavior.

Alternatively, the `[tool.cetk]` TOML table can also be integrated into an existing `pyproject.toml` file. But as along as
a `cetk.toml` exists, it will take precedence.

??? example
    ````toml
    [tool.cetk]
    environment = "native"
    verbose = false
    enable_file_logging = false
    ````